id: 39617a3de82947f8b1498fe28feb3065
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: f223dc199e844c5aa49d84741f803580
item_updated_time: 1580947483445
title_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,12 @@\n+StudentGuide\n"
body_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,27595 @@\n+## 2.2: Risk Management and Threat Modeling%0A%0A### Overview%0A%0AToday's class will introduce **cyber risk management** and **threat modeling**.%0A%0A### Class Objectives%0A%0ABy the end of today's class, you will be able to:%0A%0A- Identify threat agents, possible attacks, and exploitable vulnerabilities relevant to a given asset.%0A%0A- Prioritize risks based on likelihood and impact potential.%0A%0A- Choose and justify controls for a given risk.%0A%0A%0A### Slideshow%0A%0A- The lesson slides are available on Google Drive here: %5BGRC Day 2 Slides%5D(docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zdFhu7ebOYK48VGT70gz582C29YVfMRJddIKGRInqbs).%0A%0A%0A- **Note:** Editing access is not available for this document. If you or your students wish to modify the slides, please create a copy by navigating to File %3E %22Make a copy...%22. %0A%0A---%0A%0A### 01. Welcome and Overview %0A%0AThis section will serve as a brief review of the topics and scenario of last class, and a broad introduction to threat modeling and risk management. %0A%0AIn the previous class, we covered:%0A%0A  - The Roles and Responsibilities of the **Security Department**.%0A%0A  - Applying the **Security Culture Framework** to build a plan for improving an organization's security culture.%0A%0A  - Identifying appropriate security controls for a given resource and situation.%0A%0AToday's class will introduce **risk management** and **threat modeling** as methods of identifying, anticipating, budgeting, and planning for when risks occur.%0A%0A- These tools will allow you to:%0A%0A  - Enumerate possible risks, threats, and vulnerabilities to a company. %0A%0A  - Identify the most likely and most serious risks.%0A%0A  - Evaluate the impact the occurrence of a serious risk may have.%0A%0A  - Develop strategies for monitoring or mitigating. %0A%0A- These skills will augment your knowledge of technical infrastructure protection, with an emphasis on evaluating _what_ to protect.%0A%0A### 02. Introduction to Threat Modeling and Risk Management %0A%0A#### Risk Management and Threat Modeling%0A%0AWe will review the basic security elements of vulnerabilities, threats, and risks, and how they apply to the practical business tasks of risk analysis, risk management, and threat modeling.  %0A%0A- Review the definitions of the terms vulnerability, threat, and risk:%0A%0A  - A **vulnerability** is the aspect of a business that can be exploited to compromise a system's CIA (Confidentiality, Integrity, or Availability).%0A  %0A  - A **threat** is an actor that might exploit a vulnerability. Threats can be intentional (a malicious hacker steals data), unintentional (an incompetent sysadmin destroys the network), or be due to a natural disaster.%0A  %0A  - A **risk** is the possibility of losing something valuable. Equivalently, a risk will cost money if it occurs.%0A%0AThe common business practices that organizations employ to understand, manage and forecast these elements:  %0A%0A- **Risk analysis** is the practice of understanding what risks an organization faces; which are most severe; and which are most likely.%0A%0A- **Risk management** is the practice of using the results of such an analysis to determine how to deploy personnel and spend budget.%0A%0A- **Threat modeling** is the practice of determining which attacks an organization is most likely to experience,  who is most likely to launch them, and what can be done to stop them.%0A%0AThese practices directly relate to a business's pursuit of profit: %0A%0A  - Risk analysis is important because it quantifies how much a business needs to spend in the event of a given security break. Therefore, businesses can plan for setbacks before they occur. %0A%0A  - Threat modeling is an essential step to risk management because a risk is essential a price the business pays if the threat is realized. Therefore, they can prioritize the most expensive risks. %0A%0AThreat modeling is so essential to the running of a business that the results of threat modeling are funneled upwards to executives to influence business decisions.%0A%0AWe'll continue the lesson focusing on how to perform threat modeling.%0A%0A#### Threat Modeling Methodologies%0A%0AThere are multiple approaches to threat modeling. Security professionals often refer to the following industry standard frameworks for the general steps of the process:%0A%0A  - **PASTA**: the Process for Attack Simulation & Threat Analysis. It aims to align consideration of business objectives with technical requirements.%0A  %0A  - **STRIDE**: the Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, DoS (Denial of Service), Elevation of Privilege. It focuses on identifying what can fail in the system being modeled.%0A  %0A  - **OWASP**: the Open Web Application Security Project. It focuses on identifying possible threats, prioritizing risks, and planning mitigation strategies. It is mainly applied to the analysis of applications, such as web or desktop apps.%0A%0AEach methodology is relevant in different situations. A bank might opt for PASTA, which gives greater consideration to the business being modeled, while a pentesting firm would probably opt to use STRIDE or OWASP. You should know that they are likely to run into more than one of these during their professional careers.%0A%0A%0A#### OWASP In-Depth%0A%0AThe OWASP process consists of six steps: **Determine Assessment Scope**, **Identify Threat Agents**, **Identify Possible Attacks**, **Identify Exploitable Vulnerabilities**, **Rank/Prioritize Risks**, **Mitigate Risks**.%0A%0AHere is an overview of each step:%0A%0A  - **Determine Assessment Scope**: Listing the assets under consideration, determining their value, and defining objectives for your threat modeling assessment.%0A    %0A    - **Asset Value** is the monetary worth of a given asset. For assets like web applications, asset value should represent how much revenue and profit the asset generates.%0A%0A    - An **objective** is the metrics that the business wants to achieve, such as reducing the incidence of DoS attacks against its servers. %0A  %0A  - **Identify Threat Agents**: A **threat agent** is a person or group that can actualize a threat, _whether or not_ they are malicious. %0A  %0A    - Examples include APTs (Advanced Persistent Threats), script kiddies, employees who open phishing emails, and even incompetent users who break configurations on company computers.%0A  %0A  - **Identify Possible Attacks**: Next, we identify the attacks that each threat agent is likely to perform, based on how much skill and funding they have. %0A  %0A  - **Identify Exploitable Vulnerabilities**: Identify ways for data to enter and exit the system. %0A  %0A    - For example, a web application takes information in from users and sends information back out in response to requests. Consider ways attackers might exploit these points of entry and exit.%0A  %0A  - **Rank/Prioritize Risks**: Rank which potential attacks are most severe and most likely to occur.%0A  %0A  - **Mitigate Risks**: Determine ways to mitigate the most serious risks you identified.%0A%0A%0A#### Step 1: Determining Scope%0A%0A**Determining scope** aims to identify which assets an organization wants to assess. %0A  %0A- Organizations often consider one specific category of risk at a time. %0A%0A- For example, they might perform a risk analysis to specifically assess the weakness of their network infrastructure, and _not_ think about their application security. %0A%0A- When an organization focuses on specific subset of their assets, they are adjusting their **scope**.%0A%0A- Scope is important because it informs risk analysts what they should focus on and what they can ignore.%0A%0AScoping begins with **asset inventory**. %0A  %0A- Asset inventory is the process of identifying and assigning an asset value to all of an organization's assets.%0A%0A- **Asset value** is the financial worth of an asset. %0A%0A- For assets like a web application, asset value might be measured as revenue and/or profit it generates. A secret recipe might be valued as the amount of revenue generated by that particular dish, plus however much the business gains by being the only one to offer it.%0A%0A- Determining scope usually culminates in a spreadsheet or a written report.%0A%0A%0A#### Step 2: Identifying Threat Agents%0A%0AAnalysts **identify threat agents** by determining which attackers would be interested in the relevant assets. Analysts also consider %22unwitting%22 sources of threats, such as incompetent employees and natural disasters. However, these unintentional threat agents will not be the focus of today's discussion.%0A%0A  - **For example:** Threat agents that Facebook face are script kiddies, advanced persistent threats (APTs), and disgruntled insiders.%0A%0A#### Step 3: Identifying Potential Attacks%0A%0AAnalysts then identify which attacks the threat agent would most likely perform.%0A%0A  - **For example:** A script kiddy would have different goals than a disgruntled employee. Therefore, they would use different attacks, implying they are different risks and must be considered separately.%0A%0AAnalysts often consider each threat agent's motivation, skill level, and level of funding when determining which attacks they will attempt.%0A%0A  - **For example:** Suppose a client's web application is taken offline by a DoS attack. The severity of this risk depends on the threat agent:%0A  %0A  - A script kiddy might DoS a server simply to cause trouble.%0A  %0A  - An Advanced Persistent Threat (APT), on the other hand, might DoS a server as a smokescreen while they break in elsewhere to steal trade secrets.%0A%0A#### Step 4: Identifying Exploitable Vulnerabilities and Points of Failure%0A%0AFinally, analysts evaluate the system for ways malicious attackers can deliver these attacks and which parts of the system are likely to suffer security failures.%0A%0A  - **For example:** If your network has only one database that stores everything, the entire company loses access to all data if that single machine goes down. An attacker seeking to DoS the company's network can exploit this database to achieve their goal.%0A%0A#### Summary%0A%0AReview the steps of the OWASP threat modeling process and their corresponding action items:%0A%0A  - **Determining Assessment Scope**: Identify all relevant assets and their financial values.%0A%0A  - **Identify Threat Agents**: Identify potential attackers who might be interested in these assets and possible unwitting sources of risk.%0A%0A  - **Identify Potential Attacks**: Identify attacks that these threat agents are most likely to use.%0A%0A  - **Identify Exploitable Vulnerabilities**: Identify areas in the system most vulnerable to these kinds of attacks.%0A%0A%0A### 03. Threat Modeling Activity, Steps 1%E2%80%944 %0A%0A### 04. Threat Modeling, Steps 1-4 %0A%0A### 05. Risk Analysis %0A%0AIn this section, we will focus on Risk Analysis and explain the process of prioritizing attack possibilities. %0A%0ASome of the possible threat agents and attacks that you identified in the previous exercise are more likely than others. The goal of these first four steps was to identify all possible threats, including unlikely ones.%0A%0A  - For example: script kiddies are likely to account for the majority of attacks an organization experiences, simply because they're so numerous.%0A%0A  - For most organizations, organized cybercriminals aren't a major threat actor. They are more relevant to financial organizations, branches of government, and military targets.%0A%0A- **Risk analysis** is the process of prioritizing these possibilities according to their potential impact and likelihood.%0A%0AConsider the following scenario to contextualize risk analysis:%0A%0A  - You've identified over 10 potential attacks that GeldCorp should consider. All can be mitigated, but it costs upwards of $2.5k to implement each fix. Their Security Department only has $10k budgeted for this project, and needs advice on which four fixes would have the greatest security benefit.%0A%0AWe'll proceed by exploring:%0A  %0A  - Qualitative vs Quantitative Risk Analysis%0A  %0A  - Likelihood, Impact, and Loss Expectancies%0A  %0A  - Risk Factor and Heat Maps%0A%0A#### Qualitative vs Quantitative Risk Analysis%0A%0ARisk analysis can be conducted in one of two ways: qualitatively or quantitatively.%0A%0A- **Qualitative Risk Analysis** is the process of prioritizing risk based on intangible factors. %0A%0A- **Quantitative Risk Analysis** is the process of evaluating each risk based on its measured likelihood and impact. %0A%0A    - **Likelihood** is the probability that the event will occur and **impact** is a measure of how bad it would be. %0A%0A    - There is an additional metric, called **risk factor**, which is the number you get from multiplying likelihood by impact.%0A%0A    - For example, if a risk has a likelihood of %6020%60 and an impact of %6020%60, its **risk factor** would be 400.%0A%0ANot every scenario is easily qualitative. Likewise, other scenarios are difficult to quantify. In the next section, we will differentiate between scenarios that call for each risk analysis methodology. %0A%0A#### Qualitative Risk Analysis%0A%0AQualitative Risk Analysis is useful because accurately assigning likelihood and impact can be difficult if not impossible. %0A%0A  - It's impossible to calculate a precise probability that some hacker, somewhere in the world, will attack your servers within the next four quarters.%0A%0A  - It's impossible to precisely determine the fallout of a breach. For example; a company might face the risk of a DDoS attack against its core web servers. The cost of this attack depends on how long the attack lasts, which is impossible to determine ahead of time.%0A%0AQualitative analysis is typically much faster than quantitative risk analysis,and for high-level problems, might be just as effective.%0A%0A  - For example: a baking company might be deciding between an inexpensive VPN service that logs traffic on its servers for internal use and a more expensive service that does _not_ keep any logs.%0A%0A  - In this case, a simple qualitative analysis might lead to the conclusion that the less expensive VPN is suitable, since it shouldn't much matter if they're logging non-confidential information.%0A%0A  - A defense organization, on the other hand, would probably opt for the more expensive service, as it would prefer to leave no traces.%0A%0AIn either case, a complex evaluation of cost vs. benefit is unnecessary.%0A%0A#### Quantitative Risk Analysis%0A%0AOn the other hand, there are circumstances where intuitive analysis is insufficient. The following scenarios require quantitative analysis:%0A%0A  - The Security Department wants to invest in protecting the organization's infrastructure. In order to secure the money from the Finance Department, they must justify their ask. So, they present a quantitative risk analysis to demonstrate that the cost of _not_ investing is much greater than the budget they're requesting. %0A%0A  - The Executive Team needs to decide whether to migrate to a new cloud provider as part of negotiations with a potential partner. This transition has major financial implications, so they wouldn't make the decision without accurate assessment of potential losses due to downtime, retraining, risk of data corruption during migration, etc.%0A%0ABe assured: risk analysts use a well-defined methodology to determine the likelihood and potential impact of a given risk.%0A%0A#### Asset Value and Exposure Factor%0A%0AIn order to perform quantitative Risk Analysis, analysts start by calculating how much it costs if an asset is breached. To calculate this, they first quantify **asset value** and **exposure factor**.%0A%0A- We've previously covered that **asset value** is how much money the asset is worth in dollars. %0A%0A  - In the case of a web application's core application server, the asset value would probably be the _amount of revenue or profit_ generated by that server, _not_ the price of the server itself.%0A%0A- Analysts also consider how exposure to an attack can result in either partial/temporary or complete/permanent destruction of an asset. For example, a DDoS attack might take down a server for a few hours, whereas a fire would destroy it for good.%0A%0A- Analysts quantify this **exposure factor** by measuring %22how much%22 of an asset will be affected in the event of a breach.%0A%0A  - Exposure factor is always somewhat subjective. You should start by taking their best guess at whether the occurrence of a risk would completely eliminate (%601.0%60), mostly eliminate (%600.75%60), half eliminate (%600.5%60), partially eliminate (%600.25%60), or not affect (%600.0%60) an asset's ability to function.%0A%0A  - For instance, consider the risk of attackers DDoS-ing one of an organization's web application servers. If the network has another fallback server, the exposure factor might be %600.5%60, because the attack takes down roughly _half_ of the application's ability to generate profit.%0A  %0A  - For the risk of attackers DDoS-ing _all_ of an organization's application servers, the exposure factor would be %601.0%60.%0A%0A#### Loss Expectancies%0A%0A**Loss expectancy** is a measure of how much money an organization will lose in the event of a given breach.%0A%0A- There are two common methods of measuring loss expectancy:%0A%0A  - **Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)**%0A%0A  - **Annual Loss Expectancy (ALE)**%0A%0AAnalysts use exposure factor and asset value to calculate the number they're actually interested in: **Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)**.%0A%0A- **Single loss expectancy** is the estimated cost of the occurrence of a risk on a given asset. %0A%0A  - It is calculated as: %60SLE = AV x EF%60, where %60SLE%60 is Single Loss Expectancy, %60AV%60 is Asset Value%60, and %60EV%60 is Exposure Factor.%0A%0A  - SLE is the estimated cost each time the risk occurs. If it happens twice, the total cost would be twice the SLE.%0A%0A- **Annual loss expectancy** is the metric determining the cost of a risk re-occurring. %0A%0A  - It is calculated as: %60ALE = ARO x SLE%60, where %60ALE %60is Annual Loss Expectancy, %60ARO%60 is Annual Rate of Occurrence%60, and %60SLE%60 is Single Loss Expectancy.%0A%0A- **Annual rate of occurrence** is an estimate of how many times a risk is likely to occur in a given year.%0A%0A  - For example: one might assume a physical break-in would only happen once per year, at most. However, one should guess that phishing attacks could happen as often as monthly.%0A%0A  - If the SLE of a successful phishing attack is $2k, and it's expected to happen every month, its ALE would be %60ALE = $2k x 12%60.%0A%0ALoss expectancy can be used to categorize a breach's impact as marginal, notable, severe, or catastrophic.%0A%0A  - **Marginal**: The organization has sufficient resources to respond to the breach immediately, without affecting day-to-day operations or revenue.%0A%0A  - **Notable**: The organization has sufficient resources to respond to the breach, but may not be able to do so immediately. It may experience interruptions to operations.%0A%0A  - **Severe**: The organization experiences serious interruptions to operations, and does not have sufficient monetary and/or personnel resources to respond to the breach effectively. It may have to defer revenue, delay project timelines, reassign employees, and/or hire consultants to address the issue.%0A%0A  - **Catastrophic**: The organization suffers severe, lasting damage to its reputation and/or infrastructure. The future of the business is threatened by reputational damage, bankruptcy, being found in contempt of federal regulations, etc.%0A%0ADifferent organizations use different categories and thresholds, but these categories will be used throughout today's lesson.%0A%0A#### Risk Factor and Heat Maps%0A%0AThese assessments also makes it possible to generate charts that make it easier to understand how risks %22stack up%22. Today, we'll focus on: **Risk Matrices** and **Heat Maps**%0A%0A- A **risk matrix** is used to compare how many of the risks an organization faces are mild to how many are severe.%0A%0A- A **heat map** is used to compare how many of the risks an organization faces are low probability but high impact to how many are high probability but low impact.%0A%0AAt least these two charts are usually included alongside a risk analysis.%0A%0A#### Demonstration: The Risk Spreadsheet%0A%0A*Note:* For this portion, you will need to have Microsoft Excel or the analogous, free Libre in order to load the Risk Analysis template. %0A%0ARisk analysts typically use spreadsheets to automate the calculation of these metrics, and inform students that they'll be using one in the next exercise.%0A%0A1.  Open the spreadsheet in %5BRisk Analysis Template%5D(Activities/02_Risk_Analysis/Unsolved/RiskTemplate.xlsx).%0A%0A2. Click on **Risk Ratings**. This tab simply documents how GeldCorp categorizes probability /likelihood and impact.%0A%0A    - They rate probability/likelihood based on expected annual rate of occurrence.%0A    %0A    - They rate impact based on cost. It falls into one of four categories, corresponding to those above (_marginal_, _severe_, etc.).%0A%0A    We will use these ratings to fill out the **Risk Assessment** tab.%0A%0A3. Click the **Risk Assessment** tab and see the following columns:%0A  %0A    - **Risk ID**: The numerical ID for the risk.%0A  %0A    - **Risk Description**: A textual description of the risk.%0A  %0A    - **Likelihood**: Probability that the event will happen. This is 10, 20, 30, or 40.%0A    %0A    - **Impact**: Monetary impact of the event. This is 10, 20, 30, or 40.%0A    %0A    - **Risk Factor**: This is the product of _likelihood_ and _probability_.%0A    %0A    - **Concat**: Puts the likelihood and impact numbers together directly. E.g., a likelihood of %6010%60 and impact of %6030%60 produce %601030%60. This is used as a label in charts, and makes it easy to see if a risk has a high risk factor because of high probability, high impact, or both.%0A    %0A    - **Risk ID**: This is the same as the first column, but used by the Heat Map.%0A  %0A    - **Probability Class**: A likelihood of %6010%60 indicates there is at most a 25%25 chance the risk occurs in a year (relatively unlikely); %6020%60 indicates there is at most a 50%25 chance; %6030%60 indicates at most a 75%25 chance; and %6040%60, at most a 100%25 chance (potentially very likely).%0A%0A4. The numbers %6010%60, %6020%60, %6030%60, and %6040%60 are used to map the categories of _marginal_, _severe_, etc., to numbers.%0A%0A    - Note that this spreadsheet does not require you to explicitly calculate Asset Value, Exposure Factor, SLE, or ALE. They should estimate the ALE directly, and use this to determine their impact rating.%0A%0A5.  Click the **Risk Matrix** tab. This compares risks according to likelihood and impact.%0A%0A6. Click the **Heat Map** tab. This visualizes risks according to likelihood and impact, and provides color-coding to suggest when to _make do_ with, _monitor_, _manage_, or _mitigate_ a risk.%0A%0A7. The Risk Matrix auto-populates as we fill in the **Risk Assessment** tab. However, to generate the heat map, we will need to click the button that says **Refresh Heat Map** in the bottom left _after_ filling out the **Risk Assessment** tab.%0A%0A### 06. Break%0A%0A### 07. Group Do: Threat Modeling Activity, Step 5 %E2%80%94 Risk Analysis%0A%0A### 08. Instructor Review: Review Risk Analysis Exercises %0A%0A### 09. Instructor Do: Mitigating Risk %0A%0AAnalyst rank risks to clarify which threats are worth investing in solutions for. In the final section of the lesson, we'll look at recommending controls for the most critical risks. %0A%0A#### Deciding on Security Controls%0A%0ADetermining an appropriate control entails answering the following questions:%0A%0A  - **Required Control Type**: Should the control be physical, administrative, or technical? Should it be protective, preventive, deterrent, corrective, or detective in nature? Sometimes multiple types of controls might be appropriate.%0A%0A  - **Required Strength of Control**: How strong does the control _really_ need to be? An organization could require everyone to encrypt their disks and refresh their passwords weekly, but it probably doesn't need to.%0A%0A  - **Cost of Implementation**: How much does the control cost, relative to how much protection it provides and how much is needed?%0A%0A  - **Time to Implementation**: How long will it take to implement this control? Sometimes an imperfect but more immediate fix is better than the a fully general solution you can only implement later.%0A%0AAdditionally, you should consider what resources their client has available when deciding on controls. Some organizations will be able to afford %22proper%22 solutions, while others might only be able to implement something %22good enough%22.%0A%0A#### Mitigation Example%0A%0ARead the following scenario as an example of a risk mitigation method:%0A%0A  %60%60%60%0A    LifeNotes is a new medical records company that makes it easy for doctors from different hospitals to share medical records with each other. When they need to transfer a patient to another hospital or physician, they can use the application to send the patient's medical history, lab results, medication schedules, etc.  LifeNotes also ensures that doctors can only see records for their own patients.%0A%0A    The app is essentially %22Google for medical records%22. To use it, doctors enter a password to log in; search for a patient by name; select the correct patient; and can then see the patient's records.%0A%0A    However, a client recently reported that they were able to load records for patients they were not assigned to. They noticed this because they accidentally clicked on the wrong search result, but were still able to load that patient's medical details.%0A%0A    This violates regulatory standards around protecting patient medical information, and must be resolved immediately.%0A  %60%60%60%0A%0AThis is a security issue because it violates client-data **confidentiality**.%0A%0ASome example controls for this problem:%0A  %0A- **Required Control Type**%0A%0A  - Since this problem must be fixed immediately, LifeNotes must implement a corrective control. They should also implement protective controls to prevent the issue from reoccurring.%0A%0A  - They can accomplish this with either administrative or technical controls.%0A%0A- **Required Control Strength**%0A%0A  - The corrective control must completely resolve the issue, since the bug means LifeNotes is in violation of the law.%0A%0A  - The protective control(s) must completely prevent this issue from reoccurring, for the same reason.%0A%0A- **Control**: LifeNotes can implement the following example controls:%0A%0A  - As a corrective control, they can redeploy the older version of the application, which did not have this issue.%0A%0A  - As an administrative preventive control, they can require doctors to transfer records to the target hospital, and then have the hospital pass those records on to the specific doctor who needs them.%0A%0A  - As a technical preventive control, they can require doctors to provide a password to log in, and also provide their Employee ID to load a specific patient's records. This is called **two-factor authentication**.%0A%0A- **Cost of Implementation**%0A%0A  - Rolling back to an older version of the application is **low cost**, as it simply requires redeploying an older version of the application. %0A%0A  - Changing the way doctors and hospitals communicate data to one another has **high cost**. This requires both that their clients to change their processes, and that LifeNotes change the way their application works.%0A%0A  - Implementing two-factor authentication is **medium cost**. It requires that the engineering team implement a new feature, and that doctors learn a new workflow. However, this is an acceptable amount of work for both doctors and developers, as this control the issue entirely.%0A%0A- **Time to Implementation**%0A%0A  - Rolling back to an older version of the application should take less than a day.%0A%0A  - The administrative control would take months to implement.%0A%0A  - Implementing two-factor authentication probably takes about a quarter (obviously, this varies by company).%0A%0A%0A### 10. Group Do: Threat Modeling, Step 6 & Retrospective Activity%0A%0A%0A%0A### 11. Instructor Review: Review Threat Modeling, Step 6%0A%0A%0A---%0A%0A&copy; 2020 Trilogy Education Services%0A\n"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"id":"f223dc199e844c5aa49d84741f803580","parent_id":"1b92165e8b8d4536889d08f2ece5004c","latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","altitude":"0.0000","author":"","source_url":"","is_todo":0,"todo_due":0,"todo_completed":0,"source":"joplin-desktop","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-desktop","application_data":"","order":0,"markup_language":1,"is_shared":0},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2020-03-31T04:39:43.278Z
created_time: 2020-03-31T04:39:43.278Z
type_: 13