id: a28afef463b44e409385b00a0a71ac1d
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: b76e2787887a48ee8a7bad063db208a3
item_updated_time: 1581713119734
title_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,12 @@\n+StudentGuide\n"
body_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,32060 @@\n+# Student Guide%0A%0A## Terminal 101 Day 2: Commanding the Command Line%0A%0A### Overview%0A%0AIn this lesson, we will expand our command line skills by working in our terminal to complete tasks that require file searching and bulk operations. Throughout class, we will complete a series of activities involving the  %60man%60, %60find%60,  %60grep%60, and %60wc%60 commands.%0A%0A### Class Objectives%0A%0ABy the end of this class, you will be able to:%0A%0A* Identify and explain the structure of a terminal command.%0A* Explain how options modify the default behavior of a terminal command.%0A* Use the %60man%60 command to list instructions and options for each command.%0A* Use the %60find%60 command to locate files based on search parameters. %0A* Use the %60grep%60 command to search within the contents of files.  %0A* Use the %60wc%60 command to count words and lines. %0A* Combine multiple commands in sequence with pipes to accomplish intermediate IT tasks.  %0A%0A%0A### Slideshow%0A%0A- The lesson slides are available on Google Drive here: %5BTerminal Day 2 Slides%5D(https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gSd0bhL0032bqJ0k7mMFttEWaMlc4wIwc0Y64BDwEf8/edit).%0A%0A- **Note:** Editing access is not available for this document. If you or your students wish to modify the slides, please create a copy by navigating to File %3E %22Make a copy...%22. %0A%0A%0A-------%0A%0A### 01. Welcome Back to Terminal %0A%0ABefore we dive into new command-line concepts, let's review the commands taught in the last class:%0A%0A**Commands for navigating a file directory:**%0A%0A   - %60pwd%60: Displays the current working directory.%0A   - %60ls%60: Lists the directories and files in the current directory.%0A   - %60cd%60: Navigates into a directory.%0A   - %60cd ../%60: Navigates out of a directory.%0A   - %60clear%60: Clears the terminal history on the page.%0A%0A**Commands for making and removing files and directories:**%0A   %0A   - %60mkdir%60: Creates a new directory.%0A   - %60rmdir%60: Removes a directory.%0A   - %60touch%60: Creates an empty file.%0A   - %60rm%60: Removes a file.%0A   %0A**Commands for moving and copying files:**%0A%0A   - %60cp%60: Copies files.%0A   - %60mv%60: Moves files.%0A   %0A**Commands for previewing files:**%0A%0A   - %60more%60: Shows a file one page at a time; space bar is used to move from page to page.%0A   - %60less%60: Similar to %60more%60, but allows scrolling up and down pages.%0A   - %60head%60: Previews the top 10 lines of a file.%0A   - %60tail%60: Previews the bottom 10 lines of a file.%0A   %0A**Commands for concatenating and redirecting:**%0A   %0A   - %60cat%60: Concatenates and combines multiple files.%0A   - %60%3E%60: Writes to a file, and overwrites file if the file name already exists.%0A   - %60%3E%3E%60: Writes to a file, and appends to file if the file name already exists.%0A%0A%0A%0A### 02. Activity: Warm Up%0A%0A%0A- %5BActivity File: Warm Up%5D(activities/warmup/02_unsolved/readme.md)%0A%0A### 03.  Activity Review: Warm Up%0A%0A- %5BDirectories/Files: Warm Up%5D(resources/warmup.zip)%0A%0A%0A### 04. Command-Line Structure%0A%0ASo far, we have covered many basic command-line commands to complete common IT tasks. These commands have to follow a specific **structure** to run successfully.%0A%0AThe structure we are already familiar with is:%0A%0A%60%3Ccommand%3E   %3Cargument%3E%60%0A%0A%0A  - **Arguments** appear immediately after the command if they are inputs for the command: For example: %60touch myfile%60.%0A%0A       - The command is %60touch%60.%0A%0A       - The argument is %60myfile%60.%0A%0AIT professionals often need to run commands that require more specific parameters than can be included in the command itself. %0A%0A  - For example: You need to clean up server space. You want to list out the files by size, so you can delete the largest files first. However, the default behavior of the %60ls%60 command does not list out the files by size.%0A  %0A    Fortunately commands have **options** that enable us to modify the behavior of commands.%0A%0AWe'll cover three methods for using options.%0A%0A#### Method 1: Adding an option to modify the command's default behavior.%0A%0AExample: %60ls -S%60%0A%0A  - The added option modifies the behavior of the command. Adding %60-S%60 after the %60ls%60 command changes the behavior of the %60ls%60 command from simply listing the files, to listing them by size, with the largest first.%0A%0A- The syntax for the above command:%0A    - %60ls%60 is the command.%0A    - %60-S%60 is the option.     %0A%0A- Options always start with a hyphen.   %0A%0A- The option, just like the command, is case sensitive%E2%80%94meaning it matters whether you use uppercase or lowercase letters.%0A%0A  - The lowercase %60-s%60 will provide a very different result than an uppercase  %60-S%60.%0A%0A  - The lowercase %60-s%60 option prints the allocated size of each file.%0A%0A- Each command has its own set of options. An option used in one command  may behave completely differently for another.%0A%0A    - For example:%0A%0A      - %60ls -s%60 will print the size of each file in a directory.%0A%0A      - %60cat -s%60 will suppress repeated empty output lines.%0A%0A        %0A#### Method 2: Adding an option and an argument to modify the default behavior on files or directories.%0A%0AExample: %60cat -n logfile1.txt%60%0A%0A  - For example: We can use this command to display line numbers on a file called %60logfile1.txt%60.%0A%0A  - The default behavior of the %60cat%60 command is to concatenate multiple files or simply display the contents of a single file.%0A%0A  - To modify the behavior of the %60cat%60 command for a file, we can run%0A       %60cat -n logfile1.txt%60.%0A%0A    - Adding the option %60-n%60 modifies the behavior of the %60cat%60 command to display the line numbers preceding each line.%0A%0A  - The syntax for the above command:%0A%0A     - %60cat%60 is the command.%0A     - %60-n%60 is the option.%0A     - %60logfile1.txt%60 is the argument for the cat command.%0A     %0A     %0A#### Method 3: Adding options that require their own arguments, called parameters.%0A%0AExample: %60head -n 4 logfile1.txt%60%0A%0A  - **Parameters** provide additional details on how to modify a command's default behavior.   %0A%0A  - We can use the above command to preview the first four lines of %60logfile1.txt%60.%0A%0A  - The default behavior of %60head%60 will display the top 10 lines of a file.%0A%0A  - %60head%60's %60-n%60 option modifies the default behavior by changing the number of lines displayed.%0A%0A    - The %60-n%60 option requires a **parameter** to specify the number of lines to display.%0A%0A  - The syntax for the above command%0A%0A      - %60head%60 is the command.%0A      - %60-n%60 is the option. This specific option requires a parameter.  %0A      - %6040%60 is the parameter for the %60-n%60 option.%0A      - %60logfile1.txt%60 is the argument for the head command.%0A%0A#### Options Demonstration Setup %0A%0ANow, we will practice using command line options with the following scenario:%0A%0A  - You are a security analyst at ACME Corp. Your manager has tasked you with cleaning up some of the evidence files, as server space is running low.%0A%0A  - They asked you to delete the three largest evidence files%E2%80%94as long as they don't contain the user **Sheila**. They will need those files for a future investigation.%0A%0A  - You have been told that the log files do not contain more than 40 lines.%0A  %0A  %0A### Options Demonstration%0A%0A1. Access the  %60/instructor_day2/options/%60 directory:%0A   %0A      %60cd /instructor_day2/options/%60%0A  %0A2. First, let's take a look at the files in this directory by running %60ls%60.%0A%0A    This shows the following five files:%0A%0A      - %60fileA%60%0A      - %60fileB%60%0A      - %60fileC%60%0A      - %60fileD%60%0A      - %60fileE%60%0A   %0A3. Now, we need to know the three largest files. Run the following command:  %0A%0A    %60ls -S%60%0A %0A%0A   This lists the files from largest to smallest:%0A%0A     - %60fileE  fileB  fileC  fileA  fileF  fileD%60%0A%0A4. We now know the three largest files are %60fileE  fileB  fileC%60. Before we delete them, we need to confirm that the user Sheila is not named in these files.%0A%0A    - We will do this by previewing the top 40 lines of the files, since none of them are longer than this.%0A%0A    - To do this, we will run the following command on the first file:%0A       %0A        %60head -n 40 fileE%60%0A%0A    -  Note the syntax:%0A        - %60head%60 is the command.%0A        - %60-n%60 is the option, but requires a parameter.  %0A        - %6040%60 is an argument for the %60-n%60 option.%0A        - %60fileE%60 is the argument for the %60head%60 command.%0A%0A    - The user Sheila does not exist in this file.%0A      %0A5. Run the other head commands to preview the other two largest files:%0A%0A     %60head -n 40 fileB%60  %0A     %60head -n 40 fileC%60%0A%0A      - %60fileC%60 contains the user Sheila, so this one will not be deleted.%0A    %0A6. Run the following command to delete the two files, as requested by your manager:%0A%0A    %60rm fileD fileB%60%0A     %0A#### Demonstration Summary:%0A%0A  - Terminal commands can use **options** to modify their default behavior.%0A%0A  - Commands can also use **options**  with **arguments** to modify their default behavior on files or directories.%0A%0A  - Some **options** require **arguments** called **parameters**, which provide additional details on how to modify the default behavior.%0A%0A%0A### 05. Welcome to Man Pages %0A%0AWe just discussed how commands have default behaviors, and options can modify this default behavior to perform additional tasks.%0A%0AAdditionally, each command:%0A%0A  - Has its own unique list of options.%0A%0A  - Has certain options that require parameters.%0A%0A  %0ASo, how can IT and security professionals know and manage all of these options for all of these commands?%0A%0AThe command line has a valuable resource known as **manual or man pages**.%0A%0A- Man pages are a form of documentation available on the terminal.%0A%0A- Each command has an associated man page.%0A%0A- Each man page contains the following:%0A%0A  - Name of the command%0A%0A  - Synopsis, which includes the syntax of the command%0A%0A  - Description%0A%0A  - Options and option parameters%0A%0AThe command to display the man page is very simple:    %0A%0A%60man   %3Ccommand%3E%60%0A   %0A- For example: %60man ls%60 will display the man page of the %60ls%60 command.%0A%0A%0A#### Man Pages Demonstration Setup  %0A%0AMan pages can also assist IT and security professionals with learning new commands.%0A%0AWe'll use the following scenario to show how man pages can assist with learning a new command. %0A%0A  - You are a security analyst at ACME Corp, and your manager has asked you to count the number of server logins on October 13, 2019, as they believe it is higher than usual.%0A%0A  - They told you to use the command %60wc%60 to count the amount of logins on the server login file.%0A%0A  - Unfortunately, you have not used this command before and will need to use a man page to learn how.%0A %0A### Man Pages Demonstration%0A%0A1. Access the  %60/instructor_day2/manpages/%60 directory:%0A   %0A      %60cd /instructor_day2/manpages/%60%0A%0A2. Since we have not used the %60wc%60 command before, we need to learn what it does and how it works. We will run the command to view the man page for %60wc%60: %0A%0A     %60man wc%60%0A     %0A3. Scroll through the %60man page%60 for the %60wc%60 command and note the following:%0A%0A    - The **Name** defines and provides a brief summary of the command:%0A          %0A      - %60NAME: wc - print newline, word, and byte counts for each file%60%0A%0A    - The **Synopsis** shows the format:%0A%0A      - %60SYNOPSIS: wc %5BOPTION%5D... %5BFILE%5D...%60%0A      %0A      - This means the basic syntax is the %60wc%60 command, then the option, and then the file to run the command against.%0A%0A    - The **Description** shows a more detailed definition of the %60wc%60 command.%0A%0A    - Below the Description are the options and parameters available for %60wc%60.%0A    %0A    - To exit the man page, enter %60q%60.%0A      %0A4. Next, we are tasked with counting the amount of logins (lines) within a log file called %6010_13_logs.txt%60.%0A%0A    - In the man pages file, several options are listed. The best one for our task is %60-l%60, the line count option.%0A%0A  %0A5. Lastly, we will run the command with the option:%0A%0A   %60wc -l 10_13_logs.txt%60%0A  %0A    - The results show the count of 53 and the name of the file:%0A%0A      - %6053 10_13_logs.txt%60%0A    %0A#### Man Pages Demonstration Summary  %0A%0AThis demo covered the following concepts: %0A%0A- %60man pages%60 are documentation that exist in the terminal and provide details and options about command-line commands.%0A  %0A- %60man %3Ccommand%3E%60 is the syntax to display the man page for a particular command.%0A%0A- %60man pages%60 can be used to learn the options of a command, and to learn new commands.%0A  %0A%0A### 6. Activity: Learning New Com%60man%60ds %0A%0A- %5BActivity File: Learning New Com%60man%60ds%5D(Activities/06_learning_new_commands/unsolved/readme.md)%0A- %5BDirectories/Files: Learning New Com%60man%60ds%5D(Resources/learning_new_commands.zip)%0A%0A%0A### 07. Activity Review: Learning New Com%60man%60ds  %0A%0A- %5BSolution File: Learning New Com%60man%60ds%5D(Activities/06_learning_new_commands/solved/readme.md)%0A%0A%0A### 8. The %60find%60 Command%0A%0ATo find files or directories, we have been navigating in and out of multiple directories. But this process is very time consuming, and some file systems have hundreds of directories to search through.%0A%0A  - For example: You might be asked to find access logs within a server you're not familiar with. Security professionals are often not provided the exact location of a file, and you may have to navigate through hundreds of directories to find these access logs.%0A%0AThe terminal command %60find%60 is designed to simplify this task by searching for specified files and directories with a single command.%0A%0AHow %60find%60 works:%0A%0A  - By default, %60find%60 will search through the current directory and the subdirectories within that current directory.%0A%0A  - However, %60find%60 does not look at the contents of a file%E2%80%94only the file name or the directory name.%0A  %0ANow we will now discuss the syntax for the various methods of finding a file. We will be using the same base command throughout the examples, but we will slightly modify the command to achieve different results.%0A%0A#### Syntax for %60Find%60ing a File%0A%0A1. %60find -type f%60%0A%0A    - We'll start with the command used to find **all files**. In this specific example, we are finding all files in our current directory and its subdirectories. %0A%0A    - In order to do this, we will use the option %60-type%60 and the required parameter %60f%60 to indicate that we are searching for files.%0A%0A2. %60find -type f -name log.txt%60%0A%0A    - Now, we will find a **specific file**. In this example, we are finding the files called %60log.txt%60 in our current directory and its subdirectories. %0A%0A    - In order to do this, we are using an option, %60-name%60, to search for an exact match of the specified parameter, %60log.txt%60.%0A%0A%0A3. %60find -type f -iname log.txt%60%0A%0A    - To remove case sensitivity and find all relevant files regardless of whether the file name matches the parameter's case, we will change the %60-name%60 option to %60-iname%60. This option requires a parameter specifying what you are searching for.%0A%0A    - We can use the above example to find the files called %60log.txt%60 (lowercase) or %60LOG.TXT%60 (uppercase) in your current directory and its subdirectories.%0A  %0A%0A4. %60find -type f -iname *.txt%60%0A%0A    - In this example, we are using a symbol known as a **wildcard** to search for all files that end with %60.txt%60. %0A%0A    - The %60*%60 wildcard symbol indicates  that any file ending with %60.txt%60 will be included in the results, regardless of what comes before %60.txt%60. Using wildcards with %60find%60 is known as a **wildcard search**.%0A%0A    - We can run the above example to find all files ending with lowercase %60.txt%60 or uppercase %60.TXT%60 in our current directory and its subdirectories.%0A    %0A    A more general explanation of wildcards:   %0A%0A    - At times, you may need to search for **part of a file name**. %0A%0A      - For example, we may want to look for all file names that begin with a certain date, regardless of what the file name ends with.%0A%0A      - This can be done with a **wildcard** , signified by an asterisk %60*%60. %0A%0A    - **Wildcards** can come before text, such as %60*.txt%60, or after text, such as %600517*%60.%0A%0A      - As with the above example, if we use the %60find%60 command to search for %60*.txt%60, the command might return the following: %0A  %0A        - %60log1.txt%60%0A        - %60apachefile.txt%60%0A        - %60FILEAB.txt%60%0A%0A      - If we use the %60find%60 command to search for %600517*%60, the command might return:  %0A  %0A        - %600517apache.log%60%0A        - %600517textdata.txt%60%0A%0A%0A5. %60find /root/desktop -type f -iname log.txt%60   %0A%0A    - In the final example, we will use %60find%60 to search for a file located in another directory. Specifically, we will find the case-insensitive %60log.txt%60 in the %60/root/desktop%60 directory. %0A%0A    - To do this, we place the desired directory after the %60find%60 command and before the %60-type%60 option. %0A%0A%0ANow we will discuss the syntax for the various methods of finding a directory. %0A%0A#### Syntax for %60Find%60ing a Directory%0A%0A1. %60find -type d%60%0A%0A    - The syntax for finding a directory is exactly the same as that for finding a file, except that the option of %60-type%60 requires a parameter, %60d%60.%0A%0A    - The above command will find all directories in your current directory and its subdirectories.%0A%0A2. %60find -type d -name logs%60%0A%0A    - To find a specific directory name, we add the option %60-name%60, which requires the parameter specifying the name of the directory.%0A%0A    - With the name option, %60find%60 is searching for an exact, case-sensitive match of the parameter you specify. %0A    %0A    - In this example, we are searching for a directory called %60logs%60 in our current directory and its subdirectories.%0A   %0A3. %60find -type d -iname logs%60%0A%0A    - To find a specific directory with **case insensitivity**, we will change the %60-name%60 option to %60-iname%60, which also requires a parameter specifying the directory we are searching for.%0A%0A    - In this example, we are looking for a directory called %60logs%60 or %60LOGS%60.%0A   %0A%0A4. %60find -type d -iname *1013%60  %0A%0A    - The %60*%60 symbol indicates that it is a wildcard search. %0A%0A    - In this example, we are finding all directories that end with %601013%60.%0A        %0A      - The command will output any directory ending with  %601013%60, despite what comes before. For example: %0A        - %60apache1013.log%60%0A        %0A        - %60textdata1013.txt%60%0A      %0A 5. %60find /root/desktop -type d -iname logs%60%0A    - Lastly, this command will search for a specified directory within a directory that we are currently not located in. %0A%0A    - Specifically, this command will find directories named %60logs%60 or %60LOGS%60 in the %60/root/desktop%60 directory.%0A%0A%0A#### %60find%60 Demonstration Setup%0A    %0AWe will now demonstrate how to use the %60find%60 command with the following scenario:%0A%0A  - You manager at ACME Corp has tasked you with finding logs for a certain type of webserver called Apache, for the date of October 13th.%0A%0A  - They told you the directory should be named %60apache%60 and the log files should have the date noted as %601013%60 in their file names.%0A%0A  - Since there are many directories, you will use the find command to complete these tasks.%0A  %0A#### %60find%60 demonstration%0A%0A1. The first step is to navigate into the instructor directory called %60find_demonstration%60:%0A%0A      %60cd instructor_day2%60  %0A      %60cd find_demonstration%60%0A     %0A2. Next, you are tasked with finding a directory called %60apache%60. Run the following command:%0A%0A     %60find -type d -iname apache%60%0A    %0A    - %60find%60: The command used to search for the specified file or directory. %0A    - %60-type%60: The option used to distinguish if we are looking for a file or directory. %0A    - %60d%60: The parameter for the  %60-type%60 option, indicating that we are searching for a directory.%0A    - %60-iname%60: The option indicating that we are searching for a specific case insensitive value.%0A    - %60apache%60: The parameter indicating the value (file name) we are searching for.%0A    %0A 3. Run the command and note that the results show the directory containing the name %60apache%60:%0A %0A     - %60./apache%60%0A    %0A    %0A4.  Next, we want to find the log files that have the date %601013%60 in their name. Run the following command:%0A%0A     %60find -type f -iname *1013*%60%0A    %0A    - %60find%60: The command used to search for the specified file or directory.%0A    - %60-type%60: The option used to distinguish if we are looking for a file or directory.%0A    - %60f%60: The parameter for the  %60-type%60 option, indicating that we are searching for file.%0A    - %60-iname%60: The option indicating that we are searching for a specific case insensitive value.%0A    - %60*1013*%60: The parameter specifying the value we are searching for.  %0A        -  The two wildcards indicate that the value %601013%60 can be located anywhere in the file name.%0A    %0A5. Run the command and note that the results show the path to the  two files containing %601013%60 in the file name:%0A%0A    - %60./apache/1013_backuplogs%60%0A    - %60./apache/apache_1013%60%0A    %0A     The two file names are:  %601013_backuplogs%60 and %60apache_1013%60.  %0A     %0A#### Demonstration Summary %0A%0A   -  %60find%60: Command-line command used to locate a file or a directory.%0A   - %60type f%60: An option used to find files.%0A   - %60type d%60: An option used to find directories.%0A   - %60name%60: Additional option used to find specific file of directory names.%0A   - %60iname%60: Additional option used to find case-insensitive  names.%0A   %0A%0A### 09. Activity: %60Find%60ing Your Way%0A%0A- %5BActivity File: %60Find%60ing Your Way%5D(Activities/09_finding_your_way/unsolved/readme.md)%0A%0A- %5BDirectories/Files: %60Find%60ing Your Way%5D(Resources/finding_your_way.zip)%0A%0A%0A### 10. Activity Review: %60Find%60ing Your Way  %0A%0A%5BSolution File: %60Find%60ing Your Way%5D(Activities/09_finding_your_way/solved/readme.md).%0A%0A%0A  %0A### 11. %60grep%60 command %0A%0AThe %60find%60 command only searches for the names of files, not the contents within. However, you'll often need to search for specific data inside of a file.%0A%0A  - For example: You might be tasked with finding out if a specific user logged in on a specific day. You would first find the access log file for that day and then need to verify if the specific user was inside that log file.%0A  %0AWe have previously used preview commands, such as %60head%60, %60more%60, %60tail%60, and %60less%60, to view a file's contents.  The challenges of using preview commands to search for data inside a file include:%0A %0A  - Large files take a lot of time to scan for data.%0A%0A  - If you have more than one file to scan, it can take a lot of time to preview them all.%0A%0A  - Manually previewing and scanning files invites human error. Even the best security professionals can overlook a data point if it blends in with the other data in the file.%0A  %0AThe %60grep%60 command allows us to search within a file or multiple files to find a specific data point.%0A%0A  - %60grep%60, which stands for _global regular expression print_, is a command to search for data inside of files.%0A%0A  - %60grep%60 by default returns the entire line that the desired data point is found in.%0A%0A  - %60grep%60 by default will only search for data in the current directory and not in any subdirectories.%0A%0AWe will now discuss the syntax for the various %60grep%60 methods of finding a data point.%0A%0A#### Syntax for %60grep%60%0A%0A1. Let's begin with the basic syntax for %60grep%60:  %0A%0A    %60%3Cgrep   data_point    File_to_search_inside%3E%60%0A%0A    This syntax uses %60grep%60 to find a specific data point within a **single** file.%0A      %0A%0A2. %60grep bob log1.txt%60%0A%0A    - In this example, we are using %60grep%60 to find lines that mention the user **bob** in the file %60log1.txt%60.%0A%0A    - The syntax is:%0A        - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A        - %60bob%60: The specific data point being searched for.%0A        - %60log1.txt%60: The file being searched for the data point.%0A%0A    - This command will display all the lines where the data point %60bob%60 was found inside of the file %60log1.txt%60.%0A%0A    - If no matches of %60bob%60 are found in the file, nothing would be returned.%0A%0A%0A3. %60grep bob *.txt%60%0A%0A    - In this example, we are using  %60grep%60 to find a specific data point within **multiple** files.%0A%0A    - Specifically, we are using %60grep%60 to find where %60bob%60 exists within all %60.txt%60 files.%0A      %0A    - The syntax is:%0A%0A        - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A        - %60bob%60: The specific data point being searched for.%0A        - %60*.txt%60: The wildcard %60*%60, indicating that the command will search through all files that end with %60.txt%60.%0A%0A    - This command will display the files where the value of %60bob%60 was found, followed by the lines where it was found inside of all the %60.txt%60 files.%0A%0A%0A4. %60grep -i bob *.txt%60%0A%0A    - This %60grep%60 command can be used to find a **case-insensitive** specific data point inside multiple files.%0A      %0A    - This example will find the lines where the user **bob** or **BOB** exist in all %60.txt%60 files.%0A      %0A    - The syntax is:%0A%0A      - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A      - %60-i%60: An option for %60grep%60 that indicates case insensitivity.%0A      - %60bob%60: The specific case-insensitive data point being searched for.%0A      - %60*.txt%60: The wildcard of %60*%60, indicating it will search through all files that end with %60.txt%60.%0A    %0A5. %60grep -il bob *.txt%60%0A%0A    - The final example uses %60grep%60 to find a **file name** that contains a specific data point. %0A%0A    - This command only outputs the **file name** of the files in which the user **bob** or **BOB** exist, within all %60.txt%60 files. %0A%0A    - The syntax is:%0A%0A        - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A        - %60-il%60: Two options placed together.%0A          - %60i%60: An option for %60grep%60 that indicates case insensitivity. %0A          - %60l%60: An additional option that indicates to only return the file name.%0A          - Note that %60i%60 and %60l%60 are separate options. However, we can place them under a single hyphen.  %0A        - %60bob%60: The specific data point we are searching for. %0A        - %60*.txt%60: The wildcard of %60*%60, indicating it will search through all files that end with %60.txt%60.%0A%0A%0A#### %60grep%60 Demonstration Setup%0A    %0ANow we will practice using the %60grep%60 command with the following scenario:%0A%0A  - You manager has now asked for your help with a security investigation into an illegal money transfer that took place on May 17th.%0A%0A  - They told you that the suspect, Sally Stealer, stated that she has never logged in to the company's banking website and that she definitely did not transfer any money on %600517%60.%0A%0A  - You must use the %60grep%60 command to search the application logs to see if Sally Stealer logged in on that day and, if so, when she transferred funds.%0A  %0A### %60grep%60 Demonstration%0A%0A1. Navigate into the instructor directory called %60grep_demonstration%60:%0A%0A     %60cd instructor_day2%60%0A     %60cd grep_demonstration%60%0A     %0A2. The next step is to see all the log files that exist in this directory. %0A%0A    -  Run %60ls%60.%0A%0A    - Note that this will show three log files, two for 0517, and one for 0519.%0A   %0A3. We will first use %60grep%60 to see the names of the files in which Sally Stealer appears. This will show if Sally has ever logged in.%0A    %0A    %60grep -il Sallystealer *%60%0A    %0A    - The syntax is: %0A     %0A      - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A      - %60-il%60:  %60i%60 is an option for %60grep%60 that indicates case insensitivity. %60l%60 indicates to only return the file names.%0A      - %60Sallystealer%60: The specific data point being searched for.%0A      - %60*%60: The wildcard of %60*%60, indicating a search for all files in the current directory.%0A     %0A4. Run the command and note that the results show two files, clearly proving that Sally Stealer does have activity. %0A%0A      - %60banklogs0517%60%0A      - %60banklogs0519%60%0A  %0A5. Next, we need to prove if and when Sally Stealer transferred any funds on the day of 0517.%0A %0A    - For this example, we will search for the word %22transfer%22 with the following command:%0A    %0A       %60grep -i transfer banklogs0517%60%0A    %0A    - The syntax is:%0A      - %60grep%60: The command being run.%0A      - %60-i%60: The option that indicates case insensitivity.%0A      - %60transfer%60: The specific data point being searched for.%0A      - %60banklogs0517%60: The file we will search through%E2%80%94 since the transfer happened on 0517, and this was the only file from this date in which Sally Stealer appears.%0A     %0A6. After running the command, note that the results show the following line:%0A%0A    - %6081.220.24.207 - - %5B17/May/2015:10:05:52 +0000%5D %22SALLYSTEALER : Transfer funds : $1,000,754 from Company DDA 012  to Personal SAV 876:%60%0A%0A    - This clearly proves that Sally Stealer did transfer funds from a company account to a personal account.   %0A    %0A    - Futhermore, this happened at 10:05:52 on  May 17th.  %0A     %0A#### Demonstration Summary   %0A%0A This demo covered the following concepts: %0A%0A   -  %60grep%60: Command-line command to find a data point inside of a file.%0A%0A       - The basic syntax:  %0A      %0A         %60%3Cgrep   data_point    File_to_search_inside%3E%60  %0A      - %60grep%60 by default will return the whole line containing the data point.%0A%0A   - %60i%60: Option indicating to search for the data point with case insensitivity.%0A   - %60l%60: Option indicating to return only the file names of the files containing the data point.%0A%0A### 12. Activity: %60grep%60 Activity%0A%0A- %5BActivity File: %60grep%60 Activity%5D(Activities/12_grep_activity/unsolved/readme.md)%0A%0A- %5BDirectories/Files: %60grep%60 Activity%5D(Resources/finding_your_way.zip)%0A%0A%0A### 13. Activity Review: %60grep%60 Activity %0A%0A- %5BSolution Guide: %60grep%60 Activity%5D(Activities/12_grep_activity/solved/readme.md)%0A%0A%0A%0A### 15. Combining Commands with Piping %0A%0AToday we covered many powerful command line commands that IT and Security professionals use, such as:%0A%0A - %60find%60: Searches for file names or directories.%0A - %60grep%60: Searches for data points inside of files.%0A - %60wc%60: Counts lines or words inside of a file.%0A    %0AWe'll often need to combine these commands to complete certain tasks.%0A%0A  - For example: You may be asked to determine if a user exists in a log file, and how many times that user appears in the log file.%0A%0A    - We can use the %60grep%60 command to see _if_ a user appears in the log file by redirecting the results into an output file. %0A%0A    - We can use the %60wc -l%60 command to determine _how many times_ the user appears in the file by counting the results of this output file. %0A%0A  %0ARather than running these multiple commands separately, we can combine them using **pipes**. %0A  %0A  - A pipe takes the output of one command and redirects it to another in order to complete additional tasks on the output.%0A%0A  - A pipe is designated with the following symbol : %60%7C%60%0A%0A  - Multiple pipes can be used in a single command.%0A%0A  - Pipes are uni-directional, meaning the processing of the data only flows from left to right through the pipeline.%0A  %0A%0A#### Pipes Demonstration Setup%0A%0AWe will practice using pipes with the following scenario:%0A%0A  - Your manager at ACME Corp has tasked you with continuing the investigation against Sally Stealer. They believe she may have transferred other large amounts of money.%0A%0A  - Your manager created a single file called %60largetransfers.txt%60  that contains all transfers over one million dollars.%0A%0A  - Your manager has asked you to count how many of those transfers belong to Sally Stealer.%0A  %0A ## Pipes Demonstration%0A%0A1. The first step is to navigate into the instructor directory called %60pipes_demonstration%60:%0A%0A   %60cd instructor_day2%60%0A   %60cd pipes_demonstration%60%0A     %0A2. Next, we will use the following %60grep%60 script to identify the transfers that belong to %60SallyStealer%60:%0A%0A    %60grep -i SallyStealer largetransfers.txt%60%0A    %0A   This command returns many of Sally's large transfers.%0A%0A3. Next, we will use pipes to add an additional command to count the transfers from the previous query. Run the following: %0A   %0A      %60grep -i SallyStealer largetransfers.txt %7C wc -l %60%0A   %0A%0A     - %60grep -i %22SallyStealer largetransfers.txt%60: Lists the lines that have the name %60SallyStealer%60.%0A     - %60%7C%60: Pipes (redirects) the results into the next command.%0A     - %60wc -l%60: Counts the number of lines resulting from the previous output.%0A%0A    Notice that that the result is now only the count of %609%60.%0A%0A%0A#### Pipes Demonstration Summary%0A%0AThis demonstration covered the following concepts:%0A%0A  - A pipe takes the output of one command and redirects it to another in order to complete an additional task on the output.%0A%0A  - A pipe is designated with the following symbol : %60%7C%60%0A%0A  - Multiple pipes can be used in a single command.%0A%0A  - Pipes are unidirectional, meaning the processing of the data flows from left to right through the pipeline.%0A  %0A%0A%0A### 15. Activity: Gathering Evidence %0A%0A- %5BActivity File: Gathering Evidence%5D(Activities/15_Gathering_Evidence/unsolved/readme.md)%0A- %5BDirectories/Files: Gathering Evidence%5D(Resources/Gathering_Evidence.zip)%0A%0A%0A%0A### 16. Activity Review: Gathering Evidence %0A%0A- %5BSolution Guide: Gathering Evidence%5D(Activities/15_Gathering_Evidence/solved/readme.md)%0A-------%0A%0A### Copyright%0A%0ATrilogy Education Services %C2%A9 2020. All Rights Reserved.%0A\n"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"id":"b76e2787887a48ee8a7bad063db208a3","parent_id":"1b92165e8b8d4536889d08f2ece5004c","latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","altitude":"0.0000","author":"","source_url":"","is_todo":0,"todo_due":0,"todo_completed":0,"source":"joplin-desktop","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-desktop","application_data":"","order":0,"markup_language":1,"is_shared":0},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2020-03-31T04:39:43.329Z
created_time: 2020-03-31T04:39:43.329Z
type_: 13