id: b6d0f4b6d9b7440cb19e4d17134f9a0e
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: b88b302665d646319300f9cb1bdb2e90
item_updated_time: 1581793328812
title_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,41 @@\n+Day 1.1 : Cybersecurity 101 - Cheat Sheet\n"
body_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,4634 @@\n+# Cybersecurity 101: Day 1.1 Cheat Sheet%0A%0A## Key Terms%0A%0A- **Cybersecurity**: The assessment of threats and the mitigation of risk.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: You're launching a new website and are concerned with attacks that interrupt service due to system request overload (denial of service). Your security and IT organizations consult and develop procedures to identify threats and protect applications and the network (e.g., packet monitoring and management, escalation management).%0A%0A- **Threat Assessment**: A structured process of identifying the risks posed to a group or system.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: The National Institute of Standards and Technology (e.g., NIST Special Publication 800-30) outlines structured processes and frameworks for identifying, estimating, and prioritizing risks to individual, organizational and operational assets.%0A%0A- **Risk Mitigation**: Systematic reduction in the impact and / or the likely occurrence of a negative event.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: Reducing the risks associated with signals from wireless access points that transmit outside of your organization's controlled boundaries. A mitigation action could include reducing the power of wireless transmissions so that the communications are less likely to emit a signal captured outside of the physical perimeters of your organization.%0A%0A- **Social Engineering**: The act of deceiving an individual into revealing sensitive information, obtaining unauthorized access, or committing fraud by associating with the individual to gain confidence and trust. %0A%0A  %3E **Example**: An attacker calls (vishing-voice phishing) claiming to be from your Internet provider and starts asking questions. The objective is to trick you into surrendering information that is used to access important account information or to get login credentials (credential reuse).%0A%0A- **Phishing Attack**:   A technique for attempting to acquire sensitive data, such as credit card numbers, usernames or passwords, through a fraudulent solicitation (e.g., email). The perpetrator masquerades as a legitimate business or reputable person.%0A  %0A  %3E **Example**: During the World Cup in Russia, scammers sent out phishing email to fans with offers of free trips to obtain their personal information.%0A%0A- **Malware**: Hardware, software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system.  A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. git%0A  %0A  %3E **Example**: In May of 2017, the WannaCry worm spread rapidly  across a number of computer networks infecting Windows computers. It encrypts files on the machine's hard drive and then demands a ransom payment in bitcoin in order to decrypt them%0A%0A- **Man-in-Middle Attack (MitM)**:  An attack where the adversary positions themselves in between the user and the system so that they can intercept and alter data traveling between them.%0A  %0A  %3E **Example**: We download and update software daily. The lack of integrity verification (e.g., hash value) of downloads or update information allows a remote attacker to manipulate a software package using a MitM attack.%0A%0A- **Packet Sniffer**:  Software that monitors network traffic on wired or wireless networks and captures packets.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: While packet sniffers are used by network managers to monitor and analyze traic, hackers also use them.  For example, a user downloads a file from the Internet. The file is a packet sniffer that when installed on the network can record and transmit any data to a hacker's command and control server.%0A%0A- **Brute-Force Attacks**:  An attack that involves trying all possible combinations to find a match.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: These attacks are often used for attacking authentication and discovering hidden content and pages within a web application. Alibaba's brute-force attack compromised 21 million user accounts by using a database of 99 million usernames and passwords. %0A%0A- **Code Injection**: Types of attack which consist of injecting code that is then interpreted and executed by the application. %0A%0A  %3E **Example**: HTML injections are used to change a website or to steal personal identifiable information (PII). HTML injections can occur via a website link, data or input fields on web forms. %0A%0A- **Keylogger**:  A program designed to record which keys are pressed on your computer keyboard. It can obtain passwords or encryption keys and thus bypass security measures.%0A%0A  %3E **Example**: ZeuS/Zbot is a modular banking Trojan which uses keystroke logging to compromise credentials when a user visits a banking website. %0A    %0A\n"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"id":"b88b302665d646319300f9cb1bdb2e90","parent_id":"1b92165e8b8d4536889d08f2ece5004c","latitude":"0.00000000","longitude":"0.00000000","altitude":"0.0000","author":"","source_url":"","is_todo":0,"todo_due":0,"todo_completed":0,"source":"joplin-desktop","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-desktop","application_data":"","order":0,"markup_language":1,"is_shared":0},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2020-02-15T19:02:49.410Z
created_time: 2020-02-15T19:02:49.410Z
type_: 13